So how do we do that feedback?
Right, so if we ask stakeholders for
feedback when you present,
it's gonna lead to a conversation
about how to fix the design and
that's gonna lead into
design by committee.
So we don't want that.
Fortunately, there is a better way, right?
First of all, let's deal with how do we
stop it happening actually in the meeting,
because it's very easy for me to say,
we're not gonna do feedback.
But how do we actually stop it happening?
First of all,
don't leave enough time [LAUGH],
that's always a good way
of getting around it.
Just make sure that you present up until
the deadline, it's naughty but it works.
Second, tell people that you want to
give them time to digest the design.
So make it sound like you're doing it for
them, not for you.
Third, suggest that people go and
consult others, right?
Because the only way they can do that
is with the video you've given them.
So it means all those other people
are gonna get the same presentation
fundamentally, right?
So absolutely fine for them to go and
talk to other people and
that will make them feel better and
more confident.
And third, say that you will send them
specific questions following the meeting.
You'll follow up after the meeting with
some specific questions that you wanna
get into.
And then if you do send those,
if you do allow some space for
questions in the session.
Focus those questions very much on
the process that got us to where we
are not comments about
the design as they stand today.
So how do we then follow up and
actually gather the feedback?
That is gonna be inevitable so
we might as well do it.
So first of all, we're gonna email
the stakeholders post presentation, right?
And they're welcome to say,
there's somebody else we need
to be copied in on this.
Or it'll be great if you
send it to the CEO as well,
just get whatever email
addresses you want.
And what you gonna do is
send him an email and
you gonna send a link to the video
that you've prepared, all right?
And alongside that, you're gonna ask
some structured questions, right?
And those questions are designed
to focus the stakeholders and
the clients at providing
feedback on what matters.
And it's gonna hopefully help them avoid
getting sucked into expressing their own
personal opinions.
I will say it one more time,
never ask, what do you think?
I cannot overstate that.
So what questions should you be asking?
Here are a few that are my go to
questions, you will obviously have
to tailor these to your specific project,
but it'll give you an idea.
First of all, does the design support
the needs of the users it's aimed at?
See what I did there,
focusing immediately on user needs, right?
Second, does the design achieve
the organizational objectives?
Fair comment, needs to so we need to know.
Do you believe users will associate
the brand keywords with the design?
Don't forget you've literally just shown
them some test results that say it does,
so that'll help there.
Does the design incorporate the stylistic
elements designed in the style tiles?
And again, you've literally just
talked them through how it does that.
Does the design reflect the wireframes
you've previously created for
critical pages?
Again, you've just shown
them that it does.
And does the design communicate the value
proposition agreed at the outset of this
project?
And are there any additional
considerations we need to take into
account as we move into the build phase?
Right, take out that last one just for
a minute.
Let's look at all the rest.
You have literally just shown them how the
answer to all of those questions is yes,
all right?
And if they go through yes,
yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
how can they then say I don't
like the design, right?
You've guided them to
the right decision and
educated them by focusing
them on the right things.
As for the last question, that's the only
open ended one that you've put in
that list really,
all of the rest are yes or nos.
Hopefully, you asked that one last knowing
that they'll have got to the end of
the list going yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
The last one, notice the wording of that,
that we should take into account
as moving into the build phase.
I have not said that we
need to amend the design or
go back in endless circles
around iterating the design.
I've just said, is there anything
additional to take into account?
What I'm doing here is
controlling the narrative.
I'm controlling the conversation that's
happening to focus it on what really
matters the most.
A common mistake I see designers and
project managers making is to ask, for
example, for a single point of
contact with the design, right?
That is the worst possible
thing you can do, right?
Think about it for a minute, a lot of
designers get really frustrated that they
get all these different
conflicting feedback from people.
That's the best thing in the world,
you definitely want that, right?
That's not a bad thing,
that's a good thing.
The reason it's a good thing
is cuz it puts you in control.
If everyone's emailing you
directly with their feedback,
that means that you're the only
one that has got all the feedback.
You're the one in control, okay?
So now I can pick and
choose which feedback I listen to and
what I quietly ignore.
Also I can directly
follow up with questions.
So let's say we were getting
feedback from person B but
all of that feedback had
to go through person A.
What if I've got follow up
questions with person B?
I don't have access to that person
to ask them additional questions.
So if I'm getting feedback directly
then I can go to those people and
I can ask them questions and control
the conversation a little bit more.
We want all feedback to come to us
directly because it allows us to
question the feedback rather than
just blindly have it forced upon us.
We can judge how important and
how strongly that person feels about
the feedback cuz this
happens all the time, right?
The CEO makes a vague comment.
The next person along the chain makes
a strong recommendation based on it.
And the third person that communicates
it to you, it's an absolute must.
The CEO says so, right?
You don't want that scenario,
you wanna be at the source.
And if you control it, you can decide
what's acted upon and what's not.
Be the single person with
the whole picture and
take control of that discussion and
that narrative.
Again, this doesn't just apply to design,
this applies in project
management in general.
So let's talk about the disagreements
that will inevitably come up, right?
So there are going to be some objections.
There are going to be things.
You can control it as much as you want.
You can be as clever as you want,
but there are always gonna be
feedback that you get that you don't like,
that you don't feel is correct.
So how do you handle that?
Well, first thing is,
I would suggest, ask why, right?
There is a tactic called the five whys to
drill down to an underlying problem where
you ask why, you ask why, you ask why.
I call it the annoying toddler approach
to project management, where essentially,
and when you've got a small kid,
you know they endlessly ask you why?
Why is the sky blue?
And you give an answer and
they go, well, why is that?
And it just goes on and
on and it drives you nuts,
but it's actually a really useful tactic.
Say somebody comes back and says,
I think that I want the logo to be bigger.
Well, why?
Because I feel that users
might miss seeing it.
Well, why do you think they'll miss that?
Because I didn't see it.
Okay, and why do you think them
missing it will be a problem?
And you keep asking why?
And oftentimes, A, you get to the root of
the underlying problem which is not always
the problem that they've expressed.
But B,
oftentimes they'll lose steam [LAUGH].
And they'll basically realize there
is kinda no underlying thing.
Now you mustn't do it aggressively or
confrontationally cuz the minute you do
that it puts people's backs up and
you get nowhere.
I need to understand
this better to fix it,
can you help me kind of thing,
works really well.
If you've got objections
to their argument,
whatever it is that they said,
don't word it directly.
So a classic example would be,
I wanna change the color of that text,
right?
And immediately through your head goes,
well, that's gonna be inaccessible for
a start, right?
If you come back and say,
that's gonna be inaccessible, all right?
You're basically saying,
you thicky, what's wrong with you?
Why didn't you realize it's gonna
be inaccessible, are you an idiot?
Why would you even suggest such a thing,
all right?
That's the underlying implication.
If however you say, yeah, yeah,
we could definitely do that.
What's your thoughts about
the accessibility issue?
How do you think we ought
to get around that?
A totally different feel to it, a totally
different conversation that then ensues.
Because you're talking about we and
us and how are we going to deal with it.
And you're making the presumption they
must have thought of that already,
all right?
They're not thickies.
So that works really well.
Another thing I do is,
this is a great one.
So someone says they wanna change
the navigation or whatever,
it doesn't really matter.
Yeah, yeah, you could be right.
I might have got that wrong, all right?
That always throws them for
an instant straightaway because
people are used to confrontation.
So yeah, yeah you might be right,
we really ought to test that and
find out, all right?
It'll kill it dead.
Cuz they won't have time,
they won't wanna commit time,
they just wanted you to change it.
But nobody can really disagree
with the idea of testing it.
Especially, as you've been so conciliatory
over it and said, yeah, I might be wrong,
we need to find that out.
You've got a really good point,
let's test it.
Well, they don't have the time or
the money because they wanna move on.
So they go,
I'm sure it'd be all right for now.
That's the answer you'll get back.
Great, we move forward, we launch that
cuz the truth is once it's live you
will get data back that will
prove one way or another.
It's about keeping project momentum going.
And that is exactly the last point,
my last argument for
dealing with disagreement is,
you might be right.
Let's just get it live and
see what happens, right?
Or let's deal with that later.
Great, which brings us nicely on to
handling scope creep cuz we haven't really
fully resolved that as an issue yet.